Welcome to the review of ICICI Lombard
Elevate. Now, there are dozens of
reviews on ICICI Lombard Elevate already
there on YouTube, but we promise you
that this review is going to be
extremely different. Here, we go beyond
the fancy features to understand the
deeper fine print behind the glossy
benefits. We understand the claim
performance and the customer service
track record of the insurance company so
far. so that you know what you are
really going to get. What is the real
deal behind ICICI Lombard Elevate so
let's begin.
So we will go through the highlights of
the plan. What is the insurer actually
selling? What is the USP? We will
understand if there are any fine prints
in those USPS. Next, we will take a
quick roll call of all the core features
in the plan. Then, we will understand
the customer service and the claim
performance metrics and track record of
the insurance company. And lastly, we
will compare the price with an equally
good product in the market. So what
we've done is that we've basically
printed out the brochure of this plan uh
the ICICI Lombard Elevate plan and uh
let's understand how this insurance
company is going about selling this plan
and what is the main features that this
insurance company wants to sell you or
offer you. Right? So let's go one by
one. The first feature is called the
infinite summon short feature. uh like
all plans typically today have a sum and
short of let's say five lakhs, 10 lakhs,
20 lakhs. This plan gives you an
additional basically sum in short
feature or sum in short option which is
called the infinite sum and short
option. By this option like the name of
the sum in short says you can claim
infinitely in this policy. So there is
no limit to how much you can claim in a
particular year. Right? So when you
compare the premiums of this uh sum in
short you may obviously be feeling that
infinite sumur but
uh I just did a quick uh uh check on
what is the premium and what I found is
that the 1 cr sum insured uh let's say
for a family of uh let's say three
people if it costs around 30,000 or
32,000 uh for someone who's taking an
unlimited sum insured it will cost
around 42,000. It's not very high. It's
just 10,000 rupees higher today uh for
this specific sum inured option. So the
second feature or the second offering
from this insurance company is called
the infinite claim amount. It is an
add-on that you can buy additionally by
paying additional premium. By this
add-on, if you are basically having one
claim in your lifetime and you want to
claim without a limit, without any
boundary, then you would be able to do
that. you can basically opt for this
specific feature only the first two
years of taking the plan is what I've
understood so far that this insurance
company's offering. Uh this feature
obviously is very important for people
who are not taking the infinite
suminsured option but feel that there
could be one claim in the lifetime where
you know the suminsured may not be
enough for that specific
hospitalization. Right?
>> [snorts]
>> uh the only caveat when you're taking
this specific add-on is that you would
be able to use this only once in the
lifetime of all your family members. So
at one point in time the there will be a
situation where you will have to opt for
it and then give it away for the
remaining period of the lifetime of the
family members. Right? So that is this
specific add-on. The third one is called
the infinite reset. Now this is the
restore or the refill option that most
insurance companies today offer. It
offers you an infinite option which
basically means that multiple times
during the year if your summit short
gets exhausted then you would be able to
continuously keep restoring the summit
short and hence you will never have an
issue of you not having any coverage in
your plan in a particular point in the
year. Right? The fourth feature is
called the infinite loyalty bonus.
Right? Normally insurance companies give
you a no claim bonus which basically
means that claim then I will pay you
right. This is called a loyalty bonus
which basically means that even if you
claim or you don't claim because you're
renewing your policy with us the
insurance company you will basically get
an infinite bonus every year on year.
There will be no end to it. The basic
feature in this plan which comes as a
part of the product is around 20% no
claim bonus sorry 20% loyalty bonus
which goes up to 100%. If you take this
add-on that it is basically 100% bonus
every year. So if you have taken a 10
lakh cover it becomes 20 lakhs 30 lakhs
year on year and it has no alignment or
restriction to claims right. So if you
have basically completed 20 years in
this policy and you have a 10 lakh
cover, it will become 2 cr 10 lakhs
right uh by the end of 20 years. So that
is this add-on. So basically this uh
kind of if you look at it most of these
things are called infinite infinite
infinite uh what this insurance company
is intending to do is to give you a
boundaryless kind of a product where you
do not have to worry about exhaustion of
the cover or getting no claim bonus
multiple times as many times you keep
renewing your policy or getting one
infinite claim during the year uh during
the lifetime sorry and obviously also
opting in for no limit on sum in short
Right. The fifth add-on or feature that
this product offers is called the
worldwide cover. It is a it gives you
international medical coverage. So most
of the health insurance plans that are
available in India would obviously give
you cover for hospitalizations in India.
This is a plan that gives you
hospitalization outside India. So this
is also kind of a boundaryless kind of
option that this insurance company is
offering you that you're not restricted
to India. You can claim even you can go
to go and get hospitalized outside India
for a planned hospitalization and then
claim with this policy. Now this is
obviously an add-on. I just quickly
checked what is the premium for this
add-on. So typically the the case that
we take Mr. Kumar 30-year-old married
with one kid if he would have bought a
10 lakh sum in short policy and he takes
this add-on as an additional uh feature
in the policy he would let's say pay
around 3,000 rupees extra. So if the
premium typically for a 10 lakh sum
insured is 32,000 rupees uh this would
cost around 3,000 to 3,500 rupees extra.
It's not very expensive and it gives you
an amazing feature which is that you can
get covered outside India. A lot of
people today feel that you know for a
complicated surgery or a disease they
may want to go to Singapore or want to
go to let's say a specific country where
they specialize in that specific
treatment or disease or maybe US right.
Uh and that's why this becomes quite
relevant. So these are the features that
we've covered. Uh now what we will do is
that we will do a quick roll call of the
core benefits of the plan which
typically you and I would expect in a
product but it's important that we do a
quick roll call to understand what it
covers and if there are any kinds of um
ifs and buts that we need to understand.
So many benefits, so many terms and
conditions, waiting periods, service
track record, claims track record, all
this can get very very overwhelming and
can actually become something that is so
complicated that you know people can
give up. And that's why we always
recommend that you should basically rely
on professional experts when you're
buying a complex product and a long-term
product like health insurance. For this,
it's important that you look for an
expert who has the right track record
and has the right kind of knowledge to
help you buy the right health insurance
and also make use of it. If you're not
able to find a good expert in your area,
you can now come to bashak.org and get
free consultations from India's top
insurance experts. These experts have
been rigorously tested for their
knowledge, for their track record in
product knowledge and in claims. And
these experts will help you find the
right policy, help you buy the policy,
right? And also help you ride through
through claims, even fight with the
insurance company in case of disputes.
Okay, so uh time for doing a quick roll
call, but uh my team just told me that
I've missed one feature and so I'm going
to quickly cover that. It's called the
jump start feature. It does not uh
feature in this specific brochure that
we spoke about, but it's an important
feature that uh all of us should know
about. So typically all health insurance
plans uh they have a waiting period for
existing diseases but this plan with an
additional premium you can basically
wave off those existing uh disease
waiting periods. The premium that you
have to pay for the same Mr. Kumar that
we spoke about for a 10 lakh summon shot
is around 2568
and the entire family can get day 31
coverage for ama uh diabetes let's say
cholesterol or let's say um what is the
fourth one the hypertension uh obesity
and also let's say angoplasty right okay
so we are doing our roll call of all the
important
benefits that usually would appear in a
health insurance plan but it's important
for us to go through it so that we know
if you're not missing anything. Uh these
are typically those features that uh all
of us now expect as hygiene in a plan.
So what I've done is that I am going to
go to Bashuk's decoder product which is
on our website. You have to go to
bashuk.org
click on um the the menu bar. When you
click on the menu bar then click on
decode plans. Click on health insurance
decoder. Select the insurance company
that you want to select. Now we are
doing ICS alarm. So I'll select ICA
Lombard. Let's select elevate. And if I
click on decode now, it will give me a
quick overview of the plan and also a
detailed review of the plan. So what I'm
doing is that I'm clicking on detailed
review. And we'll go to the product
benefits and quickly look at the core
features that we spoke about. So in
inpatient hospitalization there's no
limit for ICU uh room rent limit but
there is a room rent category limit in
case of ICICI Lombard elevate only if
you opt for an additional add-on is when
you can basically have a no room rent
limit in this policy. This is something
that you should remember and I had
calculated the premium for the specific
uh add-on that you have to take. So for
a 10 lakh sum in short same Mr. Kumar
you would have to pay around 700 to 800
rupees to be able to get this add-on. So
to your product which has a category
limit of private room can move to a no
room rent limit policy. But please
remember if you're buying this product
always try to take this add-on. It's not
very expensive. Also pre and post
hospitalization to standard 180 days or
90 days not anything to talk home about.
Daycare treatment has no limits.
>> [snorts]
>> Doicillary treatment again does not have
any limits. Uh organ donor does not have
any limits. Modern treatment does not
have any limits. We spoke about bonus.
We spoke about super bonus. Uh we spoke
about refill benefit. Next important
core feature that now has become very
relevant after COVID is called the
non-medical expenses cover. This is an
add-on that you can opt for by paying
additional premium. This covers you for
all the non-medical expenses that
typically your hospital would charge but
an insurance company does not pay in the
normal course and if you take this
add-on then it will basically cover you
for this. Quickly we will also look at
the limits and exclusions of this plan.
So uh there are no limits on things like
catact or let's say joint replacement
surgery that a lot of plans could have.
It has a pre-existing disease waiting
period of 3 years. But if you take an
add-on, if you pay additional premium,
you can reduce it to 12 months. Right?
Apart from this, like we already
mentioned, ABCD, amma, blood pressure,
cholesterol, diabetes, all this can be
covered in day 31 if you pay additional
premium. [snorts] Uh specified disease
waiting period is 2 years typically. But
again, if you pay additional premium,
you can customize it and reduce it to 12
months. Uh there is no deductible in
this option. That's about it. Okay. So
we've done with the roll call of the
core features of the plan and we've also
gone through the key limits and
exclusions of this plan. Now we move on
to customer service and lastly most
importantly claims experience. What we
will do now is not only look at the
claims experience and the service
experience of this insurance company and
the track record of this insurance
company but what we'll also do is
compare it with a another insurance plan
or an insurance company so that you also
get a flavor of understanding it much
better because when you look at a track
record of only one company it's very
difficult to understand how it scores
against some other company in the same
market on the same league. So what I'm
going to do is I'll go down and just
look at which plan it's showing. Okay,
it's showing SDFC Erggo Optima secure.
I'm clicking on compare. Okay, there we
go. Uh we have SDFC Ergo compared with
ICICA Lombard for service and for
claims. Uh let me click on show five
more. Quickly [snorts] we'll look at
claims experience. In claims experience,
number of cashless hospitals is not that
important. What is important is that
hospitals that you typically go to are
covered by your insurance company. So
that is how you should reverse look up
the the hospital network of an insurance
company. So that I'm just going to skip.
The next one is claim settlement ratio
number of claims. The difference is
huge. ICIC Lombard is at 80.98%
and HDFC ERGO is at 93.51%. A very big
difference. It basically says that ICS
Lombard is rejecting more number of
claims than HDFCO
claims incurred ratio. Incurred claims
ratio basically is a ratio which tells
you how much an insurance company is
paying claims out of the premium that it
collects in a year. Right? Which is
basically 82.24% for ICICA Lombard and
84.85% in case of HDFCO
difference. So there is no one winning
here essentially. Uh [snorts] the third
is percentage of complaints received on
claims. This is a very important ratio
that all of us should know about. How
many customers are so dissatisfied with
the insurance company that they have
gone ahead and registered a claim
against the insurance company. Here also
both of them fairly uh equal.14 and.15.
So nothing to talk home about. Uh the
next is percentage of claims settled in
less than 30 days. ICS Lombard scores
99.94%
and when you compare it to HDFC Ergo it
is 96.63%.
So ICIC Lombard on this specific ratio
turns out to be much more efficient than
HDFC Ergo which is good news if you're
looking for this plan. Claim rejection
ratio is where there is a huge concern.
Right? The claim rejection ratio for ICS
Lombard is 13.38%.
it's almost rejecting like out of 100
claims 13 claims right uh and this
obviously is a concerning uh ratio for
uh for me when I look at if I'm looking
at this plan compare it to HDFCO now you
will understand why comparison was very
important HDFCO has only 2.52%
rejections compared to ICIC Lombard and
that's something that you should do a
quick red flag if you're looking at this
plan claim settlement ratio value of
claims why do we True value of claims is
to understand is that TK insurance
companies are paying a lot of claims.
But what if they are paying all the
small claims and rejecting all the big
claims that's going to get captured only
if you do a value of claims claim
settlement ratio here the difference
again is very stark. ICIC Lombard is at
48.1%
uh SDFC or is at 54.65%. Both look
terrible to me but ICIC Lombard is even
worse in this situation. So this is
something again is a red flag in my
view. We are also going to look at
customer service uh uh customer service
for ICS Lombard. So what we do in
customer service is that because there's
no metric that is available in the
market or through IDA or through
regulation or through the insurance
company to understand how an insurance
company is good on uh service uh
requests or service support uh we do our
own audits. So we do an audit on the
toll-free number of the insurance
company to find out if insurance
companies actually pick up calls let's
say on an afternoon uh on a Sunday let's
say while everybody's having lunch at
2:00 in the afternoon. Uh we do those
kind of tests. Uh and then the other
test that we do is we do a test on
Twitter. Twitter is a place where a lot
of people go out go out to make
complaints right to brands. uh so to we
find out uh how quick or non-quick or
slow an insurance company is in its
response on Twitter. This gives us a
basic understanding of how the insurance
company is looking at customer service.
It does not give you a 100% view about
service of an insurance company but it
gives you a proxy value to understand
right company uh service. So how does it
give service right when you compare the
toll-free service both of them IC
Lombard and HDFCO are average
okay okay [snorts] uh response time on
Twitter ICIS Lombard is slower compared
to HDFCO so the industry if you're
looking at HDFCO as another plan in the
industry is slightly better than ICOD
complaints received for after sales
service both are equally good 01% is
take health insurance type indry
complaints after sales service. So I
don't think there is anything to write
home again about. So this basically
gives you a good idea of the insurance
company ICS Lombard for its claim
service and its customer service. Okay.
So what we are going to do now is that
we've understood the product's
highlights. We've understood the
company's claims track record, service
track record also compared it to an
equal plan in the market. Now we are
also looking at the premium of this
insurance companies and this specific
plan and comparing it to again the same
plan HDFC or Optima secure just for you
to get the right flavor
product
comparison service claims.
Right? Let's do the premium comparison.
a base premium for a 30-year-old uh Mr.
Kumar his wife and a one-year-old kid
living in zone one which is let's say
let's pick as Mumbai [snorts]
10 lakh sum insured the premium for ICIC
Lombard with the room rent waiver would
come to around 16,39 we've taken the
room rent waiver as a default honestly
because we feel that you shouldn't op
this offer this plan without the room
rent waiver so we've taken that 7800
rupees extra uh in the comparison now
when you compare this to SDFC Erggo's
Optima secure plan it the premium for it
for the same 10 lakhs I'm insured is
24,36
right but mind you please understand
that SDFC ergo gives you like a buy 1
get one offer when you buy SDFCO's 10
lakh plan it's giving you a 2x cover on
day zero when you buy the plan right so
the difference of 16,000 and 24,000 is
has to be understood with this BGO offer
that you're getting [snorts] right okay
so we've also looked at the 1 cr
suminsured and compared premiums for the
same insurance plans that we spoke about
for 1 cr cover for the same Mr. Kumar
and his family is 32,473
rupees for ICIC Lombard Elevate for HDFC
Erggo's Optima secure plan the premium
is around 39,36
uh because this product also offers an
unlimited option plan we also wanted to
show you the difference between a 1 cr
sinsur and the unlimited suminsure
option the premium for Mr. Kumar again
the same family for unlimited sum in
short would come to 42,274
rupees when we have recorded this video
right uh all this basically gives you an
idea of premiums also comparison of
premiums also while you compare the
highlights you compare the key features
you compare the uh the waiting periods
and then you compare the track record of
this insurance company comparing premium
was also important and hence we did this
all this can be super complex and very
overwhelming for people to understand
and hence it's very important that like
you know I typically compare this to
taxation or let's say law u health
insurance has become that kind of
complicated right and that's where we
feel that there is a need for an expert
so whenever you're looking for a health
insurance plan this kind of a review
will give you a quick understanding of
what kind of plan you're buying what is
in store for you but it is very
important that you talk to an expert and
buy from an expert who has the track
record of not only helping you
understand the product but also helping
you and being accountable at the time of
claims. If you are able to find someone
like this in your location, that is the
best thing to do. But if you're not,
then do come to bash.org. We give you
free consultations with India's top 5%
insurance experts. These experts will
not only help you find the right plan
using sophisticated research tools but
will also be accountable for helping you
basically buy the plan right, fill the
proposal form, right, without any
mistakes. Also help you during claims or
any disputes that happen with insurance
companies. The entire service is free of
charge and it also comes with a no spam
guarantee. Hey, before you go, there is
one thing I wanted to talk about that
could not be integrated as a part of
this review, but very very important for
you to understand. I'm seeing more and
more insurers offering infinite covers,
which definitely sounds too good to be
true. Please understand, insurers are
today offering these infinite covers for
free or cheap add-ons because they know
how much you can utilize. They have
priced the probability of you not being
able to use these basically additional
sum in shorts and hence it sounds too
good to be true but also remember that
insurers today have the right to
increase prices of their product
whenever they want. They don't even need
to take permission from IDA. So what
sounds cheap today may not remain cheap
as we grow older. Always remember this
when you choose a summon shot. What you
are essentially doing today is locking
on to a high sum insured but honestly
without the guarantee that this will be
affordable. Always talk to an expert
before you take a call. Thank you.